what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back choose me I guess I should
use this then
[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose as you can
see I've got a brand new camera this
thing looks sick it has a little screen
on the side here so I can actually see
myself I no longer need to get up go
check behind the camera see if
everything's insane one focus it's got a
little mic on top as well looks super
super vlogger II so yeah maybe a couple
of vlogs coming soon if that's something
you guys are interested in definitely
leave a comment down below so if you're
new here if you don't know who I am my
name is Nasir I'm a second year medical
student at King's College London if you
want to follow me on Instagram for more
medical school related content feel free
to do so over here and without further
ado let's get straight into the video so
today I'm going to be talking about how
I take lecture notes at university now
taking lecture notes at university is
probably one of the core skills that you
need to succeed and to get through
university it's something that's really
important and it always takes freshers
like a year maybe two years to figure
out what their style is what works best
for them and so everything that I talk
about in this video is what works best
for me and it's what my advice is but
obviously everyone is different and
people learn in different ways so I
would highly recommend trying out
different styles if one isn't working
for you and sticking with the one that
works best so basically when it comes to
taking lectures lecture when it comes to
taking lecture notes there's two ways
that you can do it so the first way is
that you have your computer sitting on
your lap and you were just typing away
like lightning speed trying to catch
everything that the prof is saying or
you have a pen and paper or an iPad with
an Apple pencil and you're taking notes
as you go along as well so I'm gonna
split this video into typing on a
keyboard and making handwritten notes
whether that's on an electronic iPad or
on end paper and I'm gonna tell you guys
why I think using an iPad is the best
way to combine the two different ways of
taking notes and that's personally what
I use on a day to day basis now I'm
someone who really values efficiency
everything that I do in my life I try
extremely hard to make sure I'm
minimizing the time I'm spending doing
things in between I'm trying to maximize
the value of my time in whatever it is
I'm doing and that certainly applies to
lectures as well and that's gonna come
into my reasoning for why I think typing
versus lecture notes should be done in
different situations so let's move over
to my desk so I can explain this a
little bit further alright guys so like
I said before when you're taking lecture
notes you're either going to be typing
where you're going
handwriting so let's start off with
typing so if you're typing you're gonna
be on a laptop probably using a keyboard
and this is how I like to think about it
when you're in lecture and you're taking
notes if your lecture is being recorded
so that you can view it later online and
you can go through the lecture and as
many times as you possibly want you can
pause you can play you can think about
what is being said then you want to go
into handwritten notes and I'll explain
why that is later if your lecture is not
recorded and once you attend the lecture
that's the only time you're ever gonna
hear that information so you can only
get one chance to note down all that
info then you're gonna want to go with
typing and I'll explain my reason for
all of this let me write here no
recording and here we have whoops sorry
this should go here no recording and
here we have recording this is low key
also an advertisement for how cool the
iPad is just kidding obviously not
sponsored by Apple if you are in lecture
okay and that's the only time you can
get the information this is when you're
gonna be wannabe if you're in lecture
and this is the only time you're gonna
get that information this is when you're
gonna be typing as fast as you possibly
can you're gonna want to take all the
information that the lecturer gives you
because once he says it it's gone what I
like to do is take down all the
information so that later on when I'm
reviewing my lecture notes I can decide
what I think is important and what I
don't think is important obviously as
you attend University you very quickly
learn to phase out and cut out any stuff
that it's not relevant to the test
that's not relevant to the material and
you obviously don't write that down but
anything that's relating to the lecture
slides I would always personally write
that down in full then later on when I'm
reviewing those lectures and those
lecture slides I can take the
information that I think is most
important and make a second set of more
condensed notes let's talk about the
pros of typing on a keyboard first of
all you get all the information written
down second of all you have everything
quite neat if your handwriting isn't too
good poking like myself maybe using a
keyboard is better for you but I
personally prefer handwriting for a lot
of other reasons that I'm gonna say now
people do have an argument for
handwriting
it's during the lecture and they say
well look I only write down the most
important things I only write down the
key facts and there is an argument for
that but for someone like me I'm always
in fear of missing small pieces of
information I'm in fear of not getting
to write down everything that I want and
the truth is when your handwriting notes
in a lecture you simply don't have time
the lecture is speaking so fast there's
a wealth of information to go through
and you need to get all that down onto
papers that you can review it later so
that's why I really really prefer typing
if the lecture is not recorded which is
usually the case in the United States
and in Canada in the UK I know a lot of
universities record their lectures
hallelujah thank you so much that's what
I currently do and that's why I use an
iPad but the disadvantages to typing is
that you don't really pay attention so
handwritten notes I would highly
recommend if you can pause the recording
if you can play back the recording and
the reason that I highly recommend it
for that is because you can actually
take the time to listen and understand
what is being said in the lecture if
there's no recording and you're
struggling to write down everything that
you possibly can a you simply don't have
time no one can write that fast and be
you're just not going to understand it
in focus you're also focusing on writing
now the main key advantage to
handwriting your lecture notes is that
in addition to listening and thinking
about processing that information you're
also using a motor skill you are
physically moving your hand across the
paper or on a sheet of glass if you're
on an iPad and that's really going to
help you memorize and learn things
better so the advantages of handwritten
notes better understanding and info
retention okay
now the cons of handwriting is that
obviously it takes so much time and if
the lecturer is speaking really fast
obviously you're not gonna get
everything that they said but in the
scenario where the lecture is recorded
and you can review this many times as
possible then handwriting is the best
way to take what is being said in the
video and on the slides into a note form
that's easy for you to learn about and
memorize later it's good some of this a
nice coffee so if the lecture is
recorded like most medical schools in
the UK I would highly highly recommend
switching from typing
two handwritten notes it really makes
you think about what you're writing down
it makes you take a second look and a
second think about the information that
you're going through now let me show you
guys the process of me actually taking
lecture notes so the first thing that I
would do is go to the University website
and download the relevant lecture slides
for that lecture so let's say we're
studying the pharmacology of angina just
click on there and once you open the
lecture on your iPad in Safari it's
really easy to download it and import it
into your note-taking app of choice for
me personally that is notability so I
would say copy to notability it
instantly opens so easy and I would put
this in cardiovascular disease import so
I've already done this before but this
is just showing the import process now
what I do is I go to my cardiovascular
disease you can see here that I have
everything very neatly organized have my
human development course module and then
within an endocrinology fertility
pregnancy and each one has the lectures
over here and if you click on the
lectures this is an example of my
handwritten notes that I've scanned onto
my iPad now and I scan this back and
have everything in one easy place and
it's just easily accessible so back to
cardiovascular disease and the
pharmacology of angina so if we go here
to cardiovascular disease let's go down
to pharmacology of angina this is what I
will usually do it so when I'm actually
taking the lecture notes I have the
lecture slides and the recording of the
lecture on my computer I listen to it
and for each lecture slide that we have
I put a title in blue so that sort of
helps me orient you know what it is that
I'm about to talk about in the next
paragraph and then I write down as you
can see over here all the things that I
think are most important I only write
down what's important but I like to be
complete I like to have a full set of
notes here and the reason for that is
this one page over here that you can see
I also have some pictures added to as
well this has everything that was
discussed in that lecture that is
important to me so I have beta blockers
calcium channel blockers evaporating
ranolazine
all of these meds and the appropriate
information for them when it comes to
preparing for the exam I don't need all
of this information but it's extremely
useful to have to refer back to and for
me having the entire lecture on one
piece of paper makes that super easy and
can be
I have the full lecture worth of
information over here on this one page
as you can see and then if you go
further down Beneatha I have the notes
that I would use to actually study for
the exam so this all here written in
orange is a very condensed version of
the full lecture notes I took here so if
I'm quickly trying to review this
lecture in order to prepare for the exam
I would only read this small amount of
information here and this is the
important clinical most high yield
information that will come up on my test
but if I don't understand something or I
need a little bit more context all I
have to do is scroll up and I can see
all that information over here so that's
the use for me of having written down
every single piece of information that
is important when going through the
electrodes for the first time now what I
can also do is in using notes ability I
can open on the left here and I can
click on the corresponding lecture which
I can't really see right now but let's
just use another lecture for instance
woops so I can open the lecture notes on
the right hand side and I can open the
lecture slides on the left and you can
do something like this this is super
super useful so let's say that I want to
review or add notes to this and take a
look at the lecture site a second time I
can just right over here
you know I can take a look on the left
on my lecture slides on my notes here I
can even look at them there but I can
look at the lecture slides and I can
write the important information here on
the right so it's really easy to have
multitasking on the new iPads it's
really easy to look at the Electra
slides on the left right notes on the
right this is basically a perfect piece
of technology for taking lecture notes
I think the iPad is a fantastic piece of
technology let me show you what my
first-year lecture notes look like this
is one year worth of notes for kingsford
medical school I mean I can't show you
that well like this you know what let me
use my iPhone to show you this is it
this is a huge I mean I can't describe
how many papers are in here how many
lecture notes this is super heavy
obviously non practical and I hand wrote
everything I really took a lot of time a
lot of effort to handwrite these notes
if I want to find a specific lecture
right now from my first year how in the
world am I supposed to find it in here I
mean this is just a lost college look
all of my second year and first your
lecture notes combined in this tiny
little light
which is like perfect for use for
studying alright guys and I think that's
it for me I'm gonna call this video here
I hope this video gives you a better
idea of how I take my lecture notes and
can help you decide whether you want to
hand write or type your lecture notes
when you're at university thank you for
taking the time to watch if you want to
see more videos from me feel free to
subscribe to my channel and like this
video share it with your friends if you
think that they might find it useful as
well I'll see you guys in the next video
peace